README.md, before:

# Matrix Widget Toolkit

[![CI](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/%5Bmatrix%5D-%23nordeck%3Amatrix.org-blue)](https://matrix.to/#/#nordeck:matrix.org)

Reusable framework for creating Matrix widgets.

This repository contains multiple [packages](./packages) that provide reusable components that can be used to write Matrix/Element widgets.

- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/api`](./packages/api): A package that wraps [`matrix-widget-api`](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-widget-api) to provide a more convenient API.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/react`](./packages/react): A package that provides a Widget API integration for React apps.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/mui`](./packages/mui): A package that provides a matching Mui theme for Element.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/testing`](./packages/testing): Testing support for `@matrix-widget-toolkit/api`.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server`](./containers/widget-server): A container to host a Matrix widget in a production environment.
- More packages to follow…

## Background

Nordeck is developing multiple widgets that are all based on the [`matrix-widget-api`](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-widget-api).
This collection of packages shares the common parts of our widgets:

- Advanced patterns using the `matrix-widget-api`, providing an API that better fits our use cases.
- Integrating it into React applications.
- Provide a common theming that integrates well with Element (the only Matrix client that supports the `matrix-widget-api` up to now).
- Testing support

## Notable Projects

Many projects have been built using this framework. Here is a list of the ones we consider to be a great showcase of what is possible to achieve with it:

- [NeoBoard](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-neoboard): A collaborative whiteboard widget for Matrix
- [NeoDateFix](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-meetings): A solution to organizing meetings in Matrix chat rooms and video conferences
- [Matrix Poll](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-poll): This widget allows to conduct polls in Matrix rooms.
- [Matrix BarCamp](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-barcamp): A widget for organizing Barcamps in Matrix chat rooms
- [Beeper Widgets](https://blog.beeper.com/2023/08/22/build-widgets-with-beeper/): Widgets within the [Beeper](https://www.beeper.com/) unified messaging app.

## Getting Started

This repository contains an [example widget](./example-widget-mui) that shows the usage of the packages.

### How to Contribute

Please take a look at our [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/nordeck/.github/blob/main/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).
Check the following steps to develop for the packages:

### Requirements

You need to install Node.js (`>= 20.0.0`, prefer using an LTS version) and run
`yarn` to work on this package.

### Installation

After checkout, run `yarn install` to download the required dependencies

> **Warning** Do not use `npm install` when working with this package.

### Available Scripts

The following commands are available:

- `yarn dev:example`: Start the example app.
- `yarn start:example`: Start the example app with a self-signed HTTPS certificate.
- `yarn build`: Build all packages and the example app.
- `yarn test`: Watch all packages for changes and run tests.
- `yarn tsc`: Check TypeScript types for errors in all packages.
- `yarn lint`: Run eslint on all packages.
- `yarn prettier:write`: Run prettier on all files to format them.
- `yarn depcheck`: Check all packages for missing or unused dependencies.
- `yarn deduplicate`: Deduplicate dependencies in the `yarn.lock` file.
- `yarn changeset`: Generate a changeset that provides a description of a
  change.
- `yarn translate`: Update translation files from code.
- `yarn generate-api-report`: Every time you change the public API interface,
  you have to update the `api-report.md` of the related package using this
  script. The API report provides an overview about the exported elements of
  the package.

### Versioning

All packages use automated versioning.
Each change should be accompanied with a specification of the impact (`patch`, `minor`, or `major`) and a description of the change.
Use `yarn changeset` to generate a new changeset for the project you touch in a pull request.
Learn more in the [`.changeset` folder](./.changeset).

Once the change is merged to `main`, a "Version Packages" pull request will be created.
As soon as that is merged, the packages will be released to the package registry.

### Processing Dependabot PRs

Dependabot PRs which update packages that are direct dependencies of our packages (and not `devDependencies` or only a dependency of the example widget) need a changeset as described above.
Specify the impact as `patch`.

### Architecture Decision Records

We use [Architecture Decision Records (ADR)s](./docs/adrs/adr001-use-adrs-to-document-decisions.md) to document decisions for our software.
You can find them at [`/docs/adrs`](./docs/adrs/).

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 license](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Migrate to Vite + Vitest (#774)
Signed-off-by: MTRNord <mtrnord1@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Michael Weimann <michael.weimann@nordeck.net>
Co-authored-by: Michael Weimann <michael.weimann@nordeck.net>

README.md, after:

# Matrix Widget Toolkit

[![CI](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/%5Bmatrix%5D-%23nordeck%3Amatrix.org-blue)](https://matrix.to/#/#nordeck:matrix.org)

Reusable framework for creating Matrix widgets.

This repository contains multiple [packages](./packages) that provide reusable components that can be used to write Matrix/Element widgets.

- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/api`](./packages/api): A package that wraps [`matrix-widget-api`](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-widget-api) to provide a more convenient API.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/react`](./packages/react): A package that provides a Widget API integration for React apps.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/mui`](./packages/mui): A package that provides a matching Mui theme for Element.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/testing`](./packages/testing): Vitest Testing support for `@matrix-widget-toolkit/api`.
- [`@matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server`](./containers/widget-server): A container to host a Matrix widget in a production environment.
- More packages to follow…

## Background

Nordeck is developing multiple widgets that are all based on the [`matrix-widget-api`](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-widget-api).
This collection of packages shares the common parts of our widgets:

- Advanced patterns using the `matrix-widget-api`, providing an API that better fits our use cases.
- Integrating it into React applications.
- Provide a common theming that integrates well with Element (the only Matrix client that supports the `matrix-widget-api` up to now).
- Testing support

## Notable Projects

Many projects have been built using this framework. Here is a list of the ones we consider to be a great showcase of what is possible to achieve with it:

- [NeoBoard](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-neoboard): A collaborative whiteboard widget for Matrix
- [NeoDateFix](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-meetings): A solution to organizing meetings in Matrix chat rooms and video conferences
- [Matrix Poll](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-poll): This widget allows to conduct polls in Matrix rooms.
- [Matrix BarCamp](https://github.com/nordeck/matrix-barcamp): A widget for organizing Barcamps in Matrix chat rooms
- [Beeper Widgets](https://blog.beeper.com/2023/08/22/build-widgets-with-beeper/): Widgets within the [Beeper](https://www.beeper.com/) unified messaging app.

## Getting Started

This repository contains an [example widget](./example-widget-mui) that shows the usage of the packages.

### How to Contribute

Please take a look at our [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/nordeck/.github/blob/main/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).
Check the following steps to develop for the packages:

### Requirements

You need to install Node.js (`>= 20.0.0`, prefer using an LTS version) and run
`yarn` to work on this package.

### Installation

After checkout, run `yarn install` to download the required dependencies

> **Warning** Do not use `npm install` when working with this package.

### Available Scripts

The following commands are available:

- `yarn dev:example`: Start the example app.
- `yarn dev:example:https`: Start the example app with a self-signed HTTPS certificate.
- `yarn build`: Build all packages and the example app.
- `yarn preview:example`: Preview a built version of the example app. Requires `yarn build` to be run first.
- `yarn preview:example:https`: Preview a built version of the example app with a self-signed HTTPS certificate. Requires `yarn build` to be run first.
- `yarn test`: Watch all packages for changes and run tests.
- `yarn tsc`: Check TypeScript types for errors in all packages.
- `yarn lint`: Run eslint on all packages.
- `yarn prettier:write`: Run prettier on all files to format them.
- `yarn depcheck`: Check all packages for missing or unused dependencies.
- `yarn deduplicate`: Deduplicate dependencies in the `yarn.lock` file.
- `yarn changeset`: Generate a changeset that provides a description of a
  change.
- `yarn translate`: Update translation files from code.
- `yarn generate-api-report`: Every time you change the public API interface,
  you have to update the `api-report.md` of the related package using this
  script. The API report provides an overview about the exported elements of
  the package.

### Versioning

All packages use automated versioning.
Each change should be accompanied with a specification of the impact (`patch`, `minor`, or `major`) and a description of the change.
Use `yarn changeset` to generate a new changeset for the project you touch in a pull request.
Learn more in the [`.changeset` folder](./.changeset).

Once the change is merged to `main`, a "Version Packages" pull request will be created.
As soon as that is merged, the packages will be released to the package registry.

### Processing Dependabot PRs

Dependabot PRs which update packages that are direct dependencies of our packages (and not `devDependencies` or only a dependency of the example widget) need a changeset as described above.
Specify the impact as `patch`.

### Architecture Decision Records

We use [Architecture Decision Records (ADR)s](./docs/adrs/adr001-use-adrs-to-document-decisions.md) to document decisions for our software.
You can find them at [`/docs/adrs`](./docs/adrs/).

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 license](./LICENSE).
