containers/widget-server/README.md, before:

# `@matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server`

This is a container image to package a Matrix widget.

The container has the following features:

- Based on the official `nginx` image in the `alpine` variant.
- Prepared for Single Page Applications (including history API).
- Sane `Cache-Control` defaults.
- Sane `Content-Security-Policy` defaults.
- Injects a `NONCE` into the `index.html` file.
- Injects `REACT_APP_*` environment variables into the `index.html` file.
- Uses a non privileged user (`runAsNonRoot: true`).
- Supports read-only file systems (`docker run --read-only ...` or `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true`).
- Exposes the application on port `8080`.
- Allows for IPv4-only deployments.

## Usage

### Preparations

1. Add `<!--#echo var="__INJECT_SCRIPT_TAG__" encoding="none"-->` before the `</head>` tag in your `index.html`:

   ```diff
   <html>
       <head>
       <!-- ... -->
   +     <!--#echo var="__INJECT_SCRIPT_TAG__" encoding="none"-->
       </head>
       <body>
       <!-- ... -->
       </body>
   </html>
   ```

2. Depending on the libraries in use it may be necessary to pass the CSP nonce to them.
   See the [example widget's index page](../../example-widget-mui/index.html).

3. Create a new Dockerfile in your repository:

   ```Dockerfile
   # Use the latest version of the base image
   FROM ghcr.io/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server:0

   ARG BUILD_DATE
   ARG VCS_REF
   ARG VERSION

   LABEL \
      org.opencontainers.image.created=$BUILD_DATE \
      org.opencontainers.image.title="<your widget name>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.description="<your description>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.url="https://github.com/<org>/<repo>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.revision=$VCS_REF \
      org.opencontainers.image.source="https://github.com/<org>/<repo>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.vendor="<your company>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.version=$VERSION

   # Add your build output to the `/usr/share/nginx/html/`.
   # This example assumes `build/`, but it can differ in your environment
   ADD build /usr/share/nginx/html/
   ```

### Build your image

1. Create a production build of your widget: `yarn build`.

2. Build (`docker build .`).

   > The project CI should provide variables for `BUILD_DATE`, `VCS_REF` (=commit sha), and `VERSION` during build time.
   > Example: Export them as environment variables and call `docker build --build-arg BUILD_DATE --build-arg VCS_REF --build-arg VERSION .`

3. Run the image 🎉.

### Security notes

This container does not terminate SSL. It is assumed that SSL termination is done by the infrastructure running the container, e.g. with a reverse-proxy.

For security reasons it is recommended to set the `Strict-Transport-Security` header there, e.g. `Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=15552000`. This tells clients to always use HTTPS ([see MDN description](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Strict-Transport-Security) for details).

### Caching

The image uses the following caching strategy:

**Uniquely Named Files**:
All files that have a unique content hash in it's name (example: `[name].[contenthash].js`) should be located in the `static/` folder and are cached by the browser.

**Mutable Files**:
Files like `index.html`, `manifest.json`, or translation files will change on every image update and might reference uniquely named files.
They should always be refreshed.
We use a `public, max-age=0, must-revalidate` configuration, so the browser will always try to revalidate if the files are still fresh on each load.

### Environment Configuration

The image makes selected environment variables that are provided in the _deployment_ of the container (for example in Kubernetes) available to the widget.
They are available in the `window.__ENVIRONMENT__` variable as a base64 encoded JSON file (example: `eyJSRUFDVF9BUFBfRVhBTVBMRSI6ICJteS12YWx1ZSJ9 === base64({"REACT_APP_EXAMPLE": "my-value"})`).

### `Content-Security-Policy` for dynamic code

In addition to the environment variables, the image provides the `$cspNonce` to the module that is unique per request.
It is supported by a number of different libraries (example: [`styled-components`](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/pull/1022)) and can also be provided to [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/csp/).
The nonce can be read from the `window.NONCE` variable.

### Custom `Content-Security-Policy`

The default `Content-Security-Policy` can be replaced if needed.
Simply replace the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/content-security-policy.conf` file when building your container image or in the deployment.
Note that the `$__STYLE_CSP_NONCE__` will be used to add the unique nonce to each request.

It is also possible to extend the existing CSP with additional values:
The values of the `CSP_FONT_SRC`, `CSP_STYLE_SRC`, `CSP_SCRIPT_SRC`, `CSP_IMG_SRC`, `CSP_CONNECT_SRC` environment variables will be appended to the respecting policy.
Environment variable references can be added as string, e.g. `export CSP_IMG_SRC='${REACT_APP_HOME_SERVER_URL}'`.
Note that it is not possible to remove existing entries without replacing the `content-security-policy.conf` file.

### Custom `listen` directive

By default, the container will be built with `nginx` configured to accept both IPv6 and IPv4 network requests.

If you need to change this, for example to set up an IPv4-only deployment, you can replace the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/listen.conf` file within the container at build time or by mounting an alternative configuration file.

We provide an IPv4-only example in the `files/listen.ipv4.conf` file.

### Custom `mime.types`

The default `mime.types` can also be replaced.

Provide an alternative `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/mimetypes.conf` file when building the container or in your deployment.

### Additional custom configurations

As the sections above show, you can use the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/` folder to add any additional custom configuration that might be required for your deployment.
All `nginx` configuration directives that are specified within files placed in this folder will be added to the widget server block.

Commit message:

add api Cache-Control no-store and update the document
Signed-off-by: Ahmad Kadri <ahmad.kadri@nordeck.net>

containers/widget-server/README.md, after:

# `@matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server`

This is a container image to package a Matrix widget.

The container has the following features:

- Based on the official `nginx` image in the `alpine` variant.
- Prepared for Single Page Applications (including history API).
- Sane `Cache-Control` defaults.
- Sane `Content-Security-Policy` defaults.
- Injects a `NONCE` into the `index.html` file.
- Injects `REACT_APP_*` environment variables into the `index.html` file.
- Uses a non privileged user (`runAsNonRoot: true`).
- Supports read-only file systems (`docker run --read-only ...` or `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true`).
- Exposes the application on port `8080`.
- Allows for IPv4-only deployments.

## Usage

### Preparations

1. Add `<!--#echo var="__INJECT_SCRIPT_TAG__" encoding="none"-->` before the `</head>` tag in your `index.html`:

   ```diff
   <html>
       <head>
       <!-- ... -->
   +     <!--#echo var="__INJECT_SCRIPT_TAG__" encoding="none"-->
       </head>
       <body>
       <!-- ... -->
       </body>
   </html>
   ```

2. Depending on the libraries in use it may be necessary to pass the CSP nonce to them.
   See the [example widget's index page](../../example-widget-mui/index.html).

3. Create a new Dockerfile in your repository:

   ```Dockerfile
   # Use the latest version of the base image
   FROM ghcr.io/nordeck/matrix-widget-toolkit/widget-server:0

   ARG BUILD_DATE
   ARG VCS_REF
   ARG VERSION

   LABEL \
      org.opencontainers.image.created=$BUILD_DATE \
      org.opencontainers.image.title="<your widget name>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.description="<your description>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.url="https://github.com/<org>/<repo>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.revision=$VCS_REF \
      org.opencontainers.image.source="https://github.com/<org>/<repo>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.vendor="<your company>" \
      org.opencontainers.image.version=$VERSION

   # Add your build output to the `/usr/share/nginx/html/`.
   # This example assumes `build/`, but it can differ in your environment
   ADD build /usr/share/nginx/html/
   ```

### Build your image

1. Create a production build of your widget: `yarn build`.

2. Build (`docker build .`).

   > The project CI should provide variables for `BUILD_DATE`, `VCS_REF` (=commit sha), and `VERSION` during build time.
   > Example: Export them as environment variables and call `docker build --build-arg BUILD_DATE --build-arg VCS_REF --build-arg VERSION .`

3. Run the image 🎉.

### Security notes

This container does not terminate SSL. It is assumed that SSL termination is done by the infrastructure running the container, e.g. with a reverse-proxy.

For security reasons it is recommended to set the `Strict-Transport-Security` header there, e.g. `Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=15552000`. This tells clients to always use HTTPS ([see MDN description](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Strict-Transport-Security) for details).

### Caching

The image uses the following caching strategy:

**Uniquely Named Files**:
All files that have a unique content hash in it's name (example: `[name].[contenthash].js`) should be located in the `static/` folder and are cached by the browser.

**Mutable Files**:
Files like `index.html`, `manifest.json`, or translation files will change on every image update and might reference uniquely named files.
They should always be refreshed.
We use a `public, max-age=0, must-revalidate` configuration, so the browser will always try to revalidate if the files are still fresh on each load.

**API Requests**:  
To ensure security and avoid stale data, API (`/api/`) requests are explicitly set to `Cache-Control: no-store` so they are never cached by clients.

### Environment Configuration

The image makes selected environment variables that are provided in the _deployment_ of the container (for example in Kubernetes) available to the widget.
They are available in the `window.__ENVIRONMENT__` variable as a base64 encoded JSON file (example: `eyJSRUFDVF9BUFBfRVhBTVBMRSI6ICJteS12YWx1ZSJ9 === base64({"REACT_APP_EXAMPLE": "my-value"})`).

### `Content-Security-Policy` for dynamic code

In addition to the environment variables, the image provides the `$cspNonce` to the module that is unique per request.
It is supported by a number of different libraries (example: [`styled-components`](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/pull/1022)) and can also be provided to [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/csp/).
The nonce can be read from the `window.NONCE` variable.

### Custom `Content-Security-Policy`

The default `Content-Security-Policy` can be replaced if needed.
Simply replace the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/content-security-policy.conf` file when building your container image or in the deployment.
Note that the `$__STYLE_CSP_NONCE__` will be used to add the unique nonce to each request.

It is also possible to extend the existing CSP with additional values:
The values of the `CSP_FONT_SRC`, `CSP_STYLE_SRC`, `CSP_SCRIPT_SRC`, `CSP_IMG_SRC`, `CSP_CONNECT_SRC` environment variables will be appended to the respecting policy.
Environment variable references can be added as string, e.g. `export CSP_IMG_SRC='${REACT_APP_HOME_SERVER_URL}'`.
Note that it is not possible to remove existing entries without replacing the `content-security-policy.conf` file.

### Custom `listen` directive

By default, the container will be built with `nginx` configured to accept both IPv6 and IPv4 network requests.

If you need to change this, for example to set up an IPv4-only deployment, you can replace the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/listen.conf` file within the container at build time or by mounting an alternative configuration file.

We provide an IPv4-only example in the `files/listen.ipv4.conf` file.

### Custom `mime.types`

The default `mime.types` can also be replaced.

Provide an alternative `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/mimetypes.conf` file when building the container or in your deployment.

### Additional custom configurations

As the sections above show, you can use the `/etc/nginx/conf.d/custom/` folder to add any additional custom configuration that might be required for your deployment.
All `nginx` configuration directives that are specified within files placed in this folder will be added to the widget server block.
